---
date: 2020-07-12
draft: true
---
*Our heroes reach the fabled temple of Orolunga, wherein they play a game of Snakes and Ladders, followed by Twenty Questions*

---

# Events

## Day 36

rations: no (11 remain)
bugspray: yes (76 remain)

raining. hey we can use our raincatchers!
a pc needs 2 gallons of water per day in hot weather.

in the night, Eridian notices 3 flying monkeys are watching us.
points them out to molly.
    molly calls out "need something? want to say something? if not, then get lost!"
    ... the monkeys actually do so, flying back east.

## Day 37

rations: yes (10 remain)
bugspray: yes (75 remain)

uneventful travel, but still raining like a motherfucker.
tomorrow we will reach the western end of the mesa and descend back into the jungle.

in the night, our packs were stolen by flying monkeys! they went east.

## Day 38

rations: yes (9 remain)
bugspray: yes; from Molly (75 remain)

the party makes chase eastward!
Eridian takes panther form to get far ahead,
    and about a half mile away finds the packs strewn in the middle of the plateau.
    no monkeys in sight.
    Eridian can smell that they flew upward and away.
Molly yells for everyone to stop, thinking it's a trap.
fortunately nothing's been stolen. PHEW.
Lureene takes longer than usual, looking for Something In Particular. (her peerage papers.)
    everyone notices.

the party heads down another rough-hewn staircase and back into the jungle.

lureene tries to punch a rat-sized mosquito, but creed snipes it with his crossbow before she can.
lureene: "aw, damn it!"
creed: *winkwonk*

they have to make a river crossing.
Eridian turns into a sea lion and Dennis rides on his back.

Azaka goes FAST across. Lureene tries to race her, but loses.
there's a CON save after but everyone succeeds.
so, we make it across the river unscathed!

as they camp, Lureene tries her hand at hunting. but she's too noisy and scares away all the game. Alatu can't catch any fish. but Eridian shows up with a bounty!

## Day 39

rations: no (9 remain)
bugspray: yes (74 remain)

the party will reach orolunga today.
    we'll see the Seer in the ziggurat.
    OH we're suposed to ASK her about the death curse.
    this isn't where it's coming from, we're just here for information.
azaka says she can't go in. every time she's been there the seer hasn't been there.
    the party asks what the oracle rules are
    and azaka... starts to answer, then STOPS.
        Lureene thinks she just doesn't have anything to say. oh, she doesn't know.
        Eridian thinks she might be under an arcane command.

what do we ask her?
* we know the death curse being caused by an artifact, held by a lich, who is somewhere in chult.
* we *don't* know the rules of the oracle.

1. Where is the lich with the thingy?
2. How do we destroy the thingy?
3. How do we cure someone of the Death Curse?
4. What happened to Ubtao?
5. (creed has a personal question.)

    A massive brick and stone ziggurat rises from the jungle. Two staircases angle up and across the front face, one from the right, the other from the left, to meet at a landing on the second level 30 feet above your heads. That layout repeats on the second level, and the third level, but with each successive layer adding less height than the one below it. The fourth level, 60 feet above the jungle floor, is an enclosed shrine or temple, its walls adorned with labyrinth symbols. The jungle encroaches right up to and onto this ancient structure. The first flights of steps are choked with creepers, tree roots, and flowering vines. It might have been surrounded by a city long ago, but the jungle is so dense that it would take hours of searching to find buried foundations and tumbled stones. 

you can take your weapons but not your stuff.

alatu and molly go left.
creed, eridian, and lureene go right.
it's difficult terrain because the stairs are overgrown.
    at first nobody cuts them.
10 feet up, there start to be a shitload of thorns.
    you take a hit point of damage for each step you take upwards.
    Lureene, after getting nailed by this once, decides to take out her sword.

molly ASKS the vines if they're magic.
in response, a little masked black critter, like a tiny humanoid, comes up behind alatu and molly with an orange-and-purple orchid. once they're paying attention, it runs up the stairs and the vines part for it!

seeing a similar creature near the other group-
    molly: "turn around and mind your manners!"
- once they're paying attention, it does the same thing.

Azaka seems to know WHERE the plants are but doesn't say anything.
Eridian casts a spell to try and find the plants, and succeeds.
    she finds some nearby and offers everyone a bloom.
Creed goes first. the vines part! easy!
    so, we all make it up the first tier.
    we'll want to hang onto these blooms.

2nd staircase: stone is kinda crumbly.
    creed takes a step up... the stone crumbles into gravel.
    molly makes a crude rope out of vines.
    eridian can use her cat form to take it up.
        but when she tries, she gets ALMOST all the way to the top and then slips back down.
    molly tries asking the stairs again.
        and hey, look, another one of those little dudes! it's got a parrot feather, and runs up the crumbly stairs light as a feather.
    parrots in a nearby tree. eridian goes downstairs to Talk to Animals with them.
        they point her to a nest, nearby, which has a pile of feathers underneath. ta-daa!
    eridian finds that the resistance is only one-way.
    up we go!

3rd staircase:
    excellent condition, but covered in SWARMS of poisonous snakes.
    molly proudly asks - "HI, MAY WE PASS?"
        the snakes just hiss a lot.
    eridian still has speak with animals on.
        "what do we need to pass?"
        the snakes just hiss a lot and poise to strike.
    creed goes over and whispers to the snakes.
        that doesn't work either.
    where's the chwinga?
        eridian finds one just hanging out nearby her. it looks like a mongoose.
        she asks politely "how can we get up?"
    it's got an orchid and a feather...
    it whacks the snake with the orchid, and then tickles it with the feather.
        it's charmed. then it lies on its stomach, stares at the snake...
        the snake crawls down its throat, and the chwinga slithers up the stairs.
    alatu attempts this but fucks it up and pisses off the snake.
    creed does it right though.
    alatu tries to ride molly up when she does it. molly is unmolested, alatu is struck by all the snakes and falls down bleeding a whole bunch!
        Creed comes downstairs (meeting no resistance from the snakes) to do Lay On Hands.
        Alatu starts writhing like a demon's being expelled! whoa.
    lureene is grossed out but clearly this is the only way up.
        so, reluctantly, she does it.
        gawwwwwd. hope we never have to do that again.
    creed just goes ahead and does it again.

voila! we are all at the top.

looking into the room,
we find Artus Cember and Dragonbait talking to nobody.
    Lureene: "how'd he get here before us?"
    "well, he's a powerful wizard or something."
they head out but Artus looks PISSED.
    he yells: "the only way to bring it back is to KILL him?"
    and as they reach the door... they both disappear as they cross the threshold.

lureene: "i think we should take the flower and feather in just in case."
creed -> alatu -> molly -> eridian -> lureene.

as Creed crosses the threshold, the dusty empty room suddenly appears lavishly furnished!
a huge iridescent snake rests on a heap of cushions in the corner. it has an oddly human face.
    it rises slowly, turns and stares at creed.
Saja N'baza.

creed says we seek to cure the death curse.
    saja is like "hmm i'm not familiar. tell me more about it."
    so creed tells her about it.
it takes saja a while to commune with nature.
    says the lich is interfering with her sight.
    centered around Omu. that tracks with the omens she's seen.
        Omu has been mentioned before, but nobody knows where it is. we've heard of Omuans.
where is Omu?
    lies between the peaks of flame and the valley of lost honor.
        she magically marks it on our maps.
how do we defeat the lich and destroy the "soulmonger"?
    she tries to commune but she can't see into omu.
    the lich is Acererak.
how do we cure the death curse?
    another lich would know better than me.
    and you have info from liches, obtained by the [magic cia].
what happened to ubtao, the ancient god of chult?
    dendar the night serpent is locked beneath the peaks of flames.
    he waits for the end of the world to escape and release nightmares on people.
    ubtao's job is to watch him.
    but he became so entangled with his people that he split into numerous nature spirits.
    civilizations all offended the nature spirits, so ubtao was like "fuck this shit i'm out."
are the chwinga some of those spirits?
    they are spirit beings, but they're not part of ubtao.
Artus and dragonbait were here before us yeah?
    i haven't seen him in years.
    i tasked him with killing the traitorous Raz Nsi.
why?
    he wants to see his wife again.
    that was the only way for it to happen.
is his wife alive?
    yeah, but she's in another plane.
Raz Nsi took her there?
    no, she and Raz are part of the original Paladin guardians of the ancient city Mesro.
    they were tasked by Ubtao himself to protect Mesro.
    they got their powers from him.
what's her name?
    Alisanda.
    protected Mezro from all sorts of stuff. goblin hordes, the night serpent, the Eshowe (enemies of the tabaxi).
why was Mezro important to ubtao?
    Mezro was the original home of the tabaxi. the tabaxi are the original chultans.
    eshowe were from the dark continent. came to meet with ubtao but actually wanted to meet the blue serpent.
    ubtao wouldn't let them.
did raz and alisanda fail?
    no. they were tasked with holding back the eshowe.
    raz nsi was a loose cannon, he wanted to go all fire and brimstone on their asses, wipe them out.
    the others wanted to be more defensive.
    raz nsi was banished for his dissent.
        he raised a huge undead army to besiege Mezro.
    alisanda wasn't banished. she's still in Mezro.
then what?
    the remaining eight (other paladins) repelled him.
    he ended up in omu.
        it was already haunted as shit by this point, the omuans died out long before this.
        it was inhabited by the yuan-ti.
    raz tricked them into thinking he was still ubtao paladin.
    he's now their leader.
    in between there, the spellplague happened.
        the remaining 8 teleported Mezro into a demiplane, leaving behind fake ruins.
where are the ruins?
    they're up by Firefinger.
how do we get to real Mezro?
    you don't, they have to decide to come back.
    and they won't do that until Raz Nsi is dead.
how long ago did this happen?
    110 years ago.
Artus must have been crazy old.
    yeah he's waaaaaay older than that.
how?
    in his exploration, he's found something magical that extended his life.
is he immortal?
    as long as he has his magic items.
so he must know this continent better than anybody!
    yes and no. he only cares about getting his wife back.
    he gets stuck in loops and forgets where he's been and where he's going.
        lureene: we may want to get him as a guide, regardless.
        maybe we can help him, and then he won't be blinded by his quest.
can you tell us about azaka? why can't she talk about this place?
    cause i dont want her to.
can you tell us about the merchant princes?
    the culprit you seek is [prince name here.]
    the one who set up the fake execution, who's creating all the deception and strife.
        who caused trouble for your friend draza.
why?
    i dont fuckin know. humans are weird.
how'd the dragon turtle in the bay get there?
    it found a lucrative home.
why's it like treasure so much?
    it's got dragon in the name.

so what about raz nsi?
    raz nsi and acererak are associated.
    acererak deceived raz nsi.
    raz has also lost control of the undead.
why would raz help acererak?
    i dunno.
how is he assisting acererak?
    he seems to be guarding something at omu.
can you see his intentions?
    i dunno what acererak has offered him.
he doesnt have ubtao powers.
    correct. but he's still formidable.
    raz is the worst type of person there is.
    his atrocities have scarred the continent of chult.
    HE MUST PAY.
    would you be willing to kill him?
        yeah, hell yeah.
        sounds like the motherfucker needs to die.
can you help us?
    i will give you aid in the name of chult...
    if you swear to hunt him down in vengeance.
        swearing: creed, lureene, alatu, molly
            creed hates undead.
            lureene sees an opportunity to be a hero.
            alatu
            molly sees this as a means to an end, we do need to get rid of the death curse.
            eridian asks why we wouldn't first.
why wouldn't we want to kill him?
    idk, i can't always tell the motives of man.

the snake rises up and her eyes glow red. we all receive a boon.
    eridian: charm of animal conjuring
    molly: charm of darkvision
        cast Darkvision 3 times.
    lureene: charm of heroism
        as an action, give yourself the effects of a potion of heroism.
            For 1 hour after drinking it, you gain 10 Temporary Hit Points that last for 1 hour. For the same Duration, you are under the effect of the bless spell (no Concentration required).
        once used, the charm vanishes.
    creed: charm of restoration
    alatu: charm of vitality

what can you tell us about nanny pu'pu?
    that hag... she tries to prey on those who would seek my wisdom.
    she ate all of the inhabitants of her village, Mbala.
    she trapped the village there so they could not escape, and one by one ate them throughout the years.
        okay cool, let's kill her on the way back.
do you think we can take her?
    you've killed 3 hags, you'll be fine.
    she is strong, but you are strong.
what's the deal with her flying monkeys?
    they're her slaves, they won't attack you.
    they're basically unwilling.
        alatu: WE MUST FREE THE MONKEYS.

where can we trade with people? can you mark that on our map too?
    jahaka bay buuuut they don't like you.
        wellllll we did blow up their shit.
    fort beluarian, near port nyanzaru, they have lots of supplies (at a high price).
        they price gouge you unless you're with the flaming fists (monks).
        they won't do trade with anybody else.
    kir sabal is an aarakocra settlement.
        you already have an invitation.
    the heart of ubtao has supplies
        but that would be a tricky negotiation.
        how so?
            velindra shadowmantle has the red wizards of thay based out of there.
            she's not a red wizard but she has her quest.
            if you're not with her, negotiations may not go well.
        what's her quest?
            same as the frost giants from the east.
            she's after the cool artifact Artus has.
    south of the heart of ubtao is all wild and dangerous.
    shilku is an abandoned coastal village, destroyed by a volcano.
        there might still be stuff but it's also overrun by fire creatures.

what's a good route to omu?
    omu has sunk a bit into the jungle.
    it's hard to see except from above.
    i'd fly.
how can we fly?
    airships, go to kir sabal, hire a wizard... take your pick.
    they said "go to kir sabal and learn to fly" so that may be our best bet.

what can you tell us about the nine trickster gods?
    (not related to the nine paladins, there just happen to be nine of each.)
    it's hard to talk about gods. their powers are beyond mine.
    they have fallen from grace and lost most of their power,
        they were once gods.
    but i still can't see much about them.

are you related to ubtao?
    no.

what about you?
    i am a seer. i answer questions.
why?
    it's what i have always done.
    time passes a bit differently here.

can we have private audience?
    once you leave, you cannot come back in. ever.
    private audience will not be possible.

what's the deal with holy avenger? (dragonbait's sword)
    it's rare, but not unique.
    requires the blessing of many paladins.
how'd he get it?
    he didn't do it in chult, so i'm not sure. mostly i can see around chult.
    but i know YOU hate the undead a lot.
    i have a weapon you can use, in this chest.
        creed finds a Mace of Disruption.
        it's REALLY GOOD against undead!

everybody thanks Saja N'baza for her help.

molly: can we repay you for your help?
    you can leave what you want, if you think it's warranted.
        molly leaves 10 gold.

alatu: am i destined to become like the lich? can i avert this fate or is that just who i am?
    necromancy is inherently evil, even if you have good intentions.
    tread carefully.
        alatu is sad.

lureene frantically tries to think of a question...
finally gives up and shakes her head. "i can't think of anything else but thanks so much for helping."
saja says without prompting:
    you left home trying to find your path and adventure.
    know that you have found it.
    your purpose is here, in chult, with good company.
lureene brightens considerably.
    she leaves 10 gold.

eridian waits until everyone else has gone.
    how can we undo what raz has done?
        exterminate the undead.
        some are already working on that. (the paladins.)
        the yuan-ti could be alerted to the fact he's lost his powers,
        and turned against him.
    i want to help azaka with her curse. i presume you helped her already, what with the mask and all.
        no, the mask is from her family. her curse is inherited, nothing short of a Wish will cure it.
        that's what she came here for though.
    is there a reason she can't accept the lycanthropy?
        it's still hard for her to resist. and it's painful. and there's a social stigma.
    where can we find a Wish spell?
        notices a small leather pouch on the pedestal behind Saja.
    can i touch that?
        i have no possessions. if you see something you may take it.
    (it's MAGIC AS FUCK.)
    is it safe to open?
        yeah. after that is what's dangerous.
    what's the safe way to use it?
        the best way is to get rid of it, and never use it.
    peers inside.
    it's a DECK OF CARDS.
        oh fuck.
    it only has 13 cards.
    what is it?
        it is both a blessing and a curse. it is fate itself, toying with humanity.
        draw a card, and what is on it will come true... *no matter what.*
        i recommend against taking it.
    yeah but i feel like HAVING the option is better than not having it.
    i will not use it lightly.

---

everyone leaves the ziggurat room. the room turns dusty and empty again.

it's now sunrise, somehow. we were in there all night?

## Day 40

rations: yes (8 remain)
bugspray: yes (73 remain)

even though we didn't sleep, we feel rested. yay!

we head back down without resistance. the steps are all clear of everything.

eridian SPRINTS back down. but at the bottom, the ziggurat is surrounded by blue tulips.
to azaka: "is tonight the night?"
"yes. tonight is the night."


xp: none today.
but we got our boon.