---
draft: true
---
*Lureene passes a test but has an existential crisis*

-----

so yeah it's been like an hour or two tops.

from last time, questions for Ashara:

1. hey um have you been feeding the prince & princess wrong information?
2. why?
3. why let her make your people do that dumb tomato ritual?
   we know she only instituted it as a prank.
4. what's the deal with nangalore?
5. now that we've come into your house and pissed off the princess and interrogated you,
   can you teach us how to fly please


the party rejoins eridian and molly at the teacher's place.
so the princess is having a shouting match with the teacher. "HOW DARE..."

molly offers to "help", acting like she's gonna go threaten (and or inflict) violence on the princess. she and alatu start trying to push past the guard -
    and push him down the moon hole.
    shit, report *that* to OSHA.
    (it's okay, he can fly.)
now we gotta hop across the hole.
some of us make it. lureene eats shit *again.* yay.

molly pounds on the door and the shouting stops.
asharra throws open the door.
this is a tiny little library style room.

# ASHARRA
an aged, regal aarakocra with vibrant red-orange plumage.
wears blue robes with gold highlights.

she greets us and says she *was* wanting to see us just not so soon.

lureene: "i hope we weren't interrupting anything."
asharra: "you were. but you also caused the problem."
lureene: "what was i supposed to do, lie to her?"
asharra: "you shouldn't have said anything. it's not your place."
lureene: "my PLACE? if she's being taught to be a leader, it's irresponsible to give her false information."

asharra tells mwaxanare to leave.
molly doesn't get out of the way, and mwax crawls underneath her legs.
    lureene helps her up on the other side.

asharra: "you've caused a lot of harm today."
lureene: "she's not growing up, and you're letting her not grow up."

asharra: "we do what we must to keep the princess happy. if she's not happy, she could flee."
how would she get down?
"same way her father did." (he fell off the plateau while repairing buildings.)


well originally wanted to see you because you saved one of our own.
nefer.
we like to return favors, generally.
but with this travesty, i'm not so sure you're welcome.

lureene: we've gotta be able to make this right somehow.
we need the dance of the 7 winds.
    A: why?
have you heard of the death curse?
    A: kinda.

[we tell her what's up. port nyanzaru is burning.]

what are you gonna do?

lureene & creed: KILL ACERERAK.
eridian: well actually just destroy the death curse artifact.

acererak killed the omuan people and drove her family out.
we (asharra says) want to see the omuan royals reclaim their throne.
we have the same goals.
but YOU guys can't defeat acererak, hahaha.

asharra offers to help though. hands molly a bag of 10 phials.
"this should help on your quest. now please leave."
it's 10 potions of healing.

eridian: "oh, nice. that'll just about heal us from the fall."
molly: "that's nice, but it's not what we came here for."

asharra: i cant teach you the dance of the 7 winds. it's not a taught thing.
i PERFORM the dance, to grant you the gift of flight -
at the cost of my wings.
    (WHOA.)
if the right group presented themselves, if they COULD challenge the lich...
i might consider it. but that aint you, kids.

everyone's like: "we can do it though!"
creed: "i've sworn an oath to end all evil! i'm gonna do it! i'll lay down my life."
    states the tenets of vengeance. no mercy for the wicked.
    presents his holy symbol and his insignia of rank.

asharra nods. "your convictions are strong. you i could stand behind. but a lone man cannot take on the lich."
creed convinces asharra it's okay that we don't have a particular leader.
    we're a group of equals.

asharra begins inquiring why EACH of us thinks we can do it.
* molly: "because i'm kind of a big deal!"
  asharra: "well you're clearly tough and confident, that's good."
* "alatu, you've been awful quiet. i sense death around you."
  alatu feels defensive, as she's already stressed, and snaps-
  "we don't have time for this 'prove yourself' bullshit! we gonna DIE.
   do you care leaving about piles of stinking bodies in your wake?
   or are you just going to fly above it??"
  asharra: "hmm. well you've got spirit. even if you're accusing me.
  you still have a ways to go but you're on the right track to understand Acererak."

* lureene: is very unsure they can actually do it. she doesnt WANT to die trying.
  asharra: "you're very young for your heritage."
  lureene: (internally) whaaa?
           (aloud) i know i'm young, and inexperienced, and maybe i dont know what i'm doing, at all, ever, but- but i have to TRY.
           people are suffering. if i'm in a position to stop it, and i didn't TRY-
           that's not a kind of person i can BE.

* eridian: i dunno, i can do nature magic and shit.
  asharra: have you heard of black orchids?
  eridian: kinda but idk if they're real.
  asharra: so.... you can't CREATE one.
  eridian: i'm sure i can FIND one, if there's one around here!

asharra: well, the rest of you have me convinced.
   lureene... i need to see your martial prowess. will you duel my guard?
lureene hesitates, then looks up and nods wordlessly.

alatu storms off grumbling about this being bullshit.

creed tries to protest: this isn't how we do things. we fight together.
lureene: it's okay. i'll do it. if i can't even do this, then i don't stand a chance.
creed: what are the terms?
asharra: death or submission. you can use anything you have.
molly: well we're not planning to kill anybody!
asharra: of course. but it's allowed.

Lureene, you will fight Yingmatona immediately. downstairs. in the moon door room.

lureene goes before she can chicken out.
on the way out of the room, alatu grabs lureene by the arm and puts stinky makeup on her (its' guano. she's got guano smeared on her face.)
    acting uncharacteristically warm and nice and encouraging.
    "i'm making you pretty! you're gonna win this!"
lureene resists at first but then realizes maybe alatu is doing something *tangible* and allows it.
    what this was: Alatu cast "Friends" to try and prevent the duel from happening.
    (that's why ying is reluctant to do it.)

the party positions themselves.
creed is planning to intervene if things go pear-shaped.

lureene gets to the bottom, squares her shoulders. yingmatona is hovering over the hole.
lureene: "it's asharra's wish that i duel you."
yingmatona: "she may wish that. is it YOUR wish?"
lureene: "i'll do what i must."
asharra: "i have named him as my champion."
lureene: "i WILL duel you." points at yingmatona and casts true strike.
ying: shakes his head. glares at ALATU, and then draws his spear and attacks lureene.

ying: spear to lureene's leg.
lureene: sword across ying's chest, then action surge + color spray.
ying is hurt and blinded! he DROPS his spear, covers his eyes with his wings, and plummets through the hole.
lureene, surprised it worked that EFFECTIVELY, leans over the hole...
ying continues to fall, doesn't recover, and they watch as he plummets into the jungle, helpless to stop it.

lureene BOLTS out of the room, running full tilt to get DOWN and reach yingmatona.
she didn't want to KILL him.
    alatu tells asharra off and goes after lureene.
(eridian: okay, well, who do you want ME to kill?)

nobody is happy about this development.

eridian's task:
a black orchid is required for the 7 winds ceremony.
go to nangalore and find one.



lureene is running full tilt down the ramps.
    (is this still worth it? someone will ask later.
    how dead set are we on learning to fly?
    lureene's response to that:
    if we do all this and DON'T learn to fly,
    then i just slaughtered an innocent man for nothing.)
her feelings here.
    it wasn't even a real fight.
    why didn't he fly???
    he couldn't see, sure, but you don't need to SEE to fly.
    why didn't you open your wings, you damn fool?!

runs into a couple of aarakocra inside the sparring room.
"we've been instructed to give you transportation up and down. are you leaving?"
lureene was almost gonna run past them, but wheels around like
    "YES. i need to get down there NOW. also find a medic!!!"

the guy makes a wind flavored dimension door and lureene jumps through.

at the bottom, they find the wreckage of the destroyed walkway he fell through.
and after a few minutes of searching and yelling, they find a circle in the grass that's suspicously free of debris or anything.
but no body.
alatu shouts into the void: "if this is some kind of game to fool us you got another thing coming!"
lureene: "i don't think they can hear you." crouches to inspect the circle, can't really tell if it's a spell or what.
then she just remains there for a minute, with her head in her hands, sorting out how she feels about this.
    he faked it.
        he faked his fucking death.
    was that the plan from the start?
    was it part of the test?
    was she supposed to REFUSE?
        i mean if the fight WAS the point, then it didn't even test her capabilities!
        it was over before it started!
        a lucky win like that - what would it PROVE?
        no, not even "lucky" - ying *threw the fight.* he didn't have to fall.
    if she was supposed to refuse, then she failed the test.

as alatu is storming away, a cave opens at the bottom of the plateau.
she and lureene go in and find themselves back at the top.
alatu: "lets go talk to the others."
lureene (serious af): "yes. let's."

----

meanwhile everybody else gets exposition about nangalore 
    * the aarakocra aren't allowed because it's full of Eblis, the lying cranes.
    * there's legends of a boss monster also but asharra doesn't think it's real.
    * the gardens were made in tribute to a former empress.
and what the aarakocra are doing here
    * trying to restore the omuans, because they kept some great evils (e.g. the one under the flaming mountains) at bay.

eridian and creed try to negotiate faster transport - we'd get dropped off like *one* day's travel away instead of *five.*
asharra agrees and she'll even get her guys to take us ALL the way there.


lureene storms in. "WHERE IS HE?"
asharra: "come again?"
lureene: "you know what i mean! yingmatona! he's alive, isn't he?!"

at the same time another guard swoops in, stage-whispers to asharra.
"aka has come through again".

asharra: "we have a pact with the dukes of aka, on the elemental plane of air.
    they'll come to our aid if we're in danger."
lureene: "so he was never in any real danger?"
asharra: "well i mean he still could have died in combat."
lureene: "but it still doesnt make sense! that spell (color spray) only blinds.
    he could have opened his wings!"
asharra: "no he couldn't. you struck true with that first blow, and bested him in one hit.
    congrats lureene, you're a good fighter. you have passed the test."

lureene's in shock.
alatu starts telling off asharra in that way she does.
    "your assessment of her is meaningless, your wisdom is useless, etc"
lureene interrupts. "alatu, stop."
alatu: "what?"
lureene: "just... stop."
    and lureene walks away.
(alatu finishes her rant and storms off somewhere else.)


the others leave, except for creed, who follows asharra upstairs.
he explains our actions and reactions.
asharra: "I had to be sure you were strong enough. i can only do this once."
creed: "i don't like to risk my party unnecessarily that's all. but i understand why you made the decisions you did."
asharra: "i can see you're super devoted to them. they're lucky to have you.
    i don't think you're ready to take on acererak YET. but you're on the right track.
    and at this point, you're probably our last and only hope."
creed also tries to get the health potions offered before, buuuut they're off the table now. (they're not there, somebody else has used them.)


where did lureene go?
    downstairs of building 1, i think. in the area with the two big arches.
    she's leaning on one of them looking out at... the sky.
        (which direction does the village face?)
are you okay?
    i will be, i think.
    i just...
    is this what being an adventurer is about, really?
    no matter what i do, i feel like i'm doing everything wrong.
    yingmatona didn't do anything wrong, and i almost *killed* him.
    we're doing the right thing, right?
we need to end the curse. we need to kill acererak.
    if we don't, who will?
i still don't know if we can.
    i'm so so afraid i won't be up to the task.
but it's like i said to asharra.
    people are suffering. dying. *worse.*
    if i gave up now....
    **i don't think i could live with myself.**



----

meanwhile:
molly bursts into mwax's house, startling her.
does an intimidation.
    "you're a princess, bitch, act like one!
    don't treat your people like playthings!"
mwax is scared at first,
but then her eyes glow
and molly (failing her wisdom save) is no longer angry at her.
    it was charm person.
molly switches to the gentle approach as a result.

mwax: i *know* the gravity of my position!
    it's just that the people are not coming to my aid!
    it's not my fault!

alatu probes her thoughts,
and negotiates with her i guess.
    i'm only half paying attention at that point.
she also gets charmed.

so i guess mwax uses charming magic to make people do what she wants.
molly's pissed when the spell wears off.

creed and eridian manage to get them out of the house, somehow.
    we've been barred from interacting with them for now.

and at the house behind them,
there's a screech of rage and an explosion.
    (mwax is throwing a tantrum i guess.)
(a horn blows and some aarakocra guards are on their way...
carrying a big crate labeled "explosion repair kit.")

i guess this is another reason asharra doesn't like to make her mad.

(lureene dimly hears the explosion. what was that?)

----

the aarakocra give us supplies (rations/bugspray) for the journey to Nangalore, free of charge.
like not an exorbitant amount of stuff, but you can restock for this trip.

(lureene: +8 rations)

---

(paul has a theory that mwax is some kind of wild-magic goddess.
let's follow up on that in character.)


next time: we're going to the hanging gardens.