---
title: New Faces
date: 2021-10-15
draft: true
---
*A decrepit pencil-pusher is pushed across the line; office politics; our heroes make new friends and get in an avoidable fight so what else is new*

-----

# Meanwhile...

In another room, a woman was being questioned.

She asked how she could leave; they said she couldn't. "As you know, members of the work team are not allowed to leave the site."
She asked where she could take a smoke break; they said they had break rooms on every floor.

They asked how *she* ended up wandering around outside the designated working areas.
She said she forgot how to deactivate a trap and didn't have the manual...
They said "Just use the founts of seeing. Any tomb dwarf can show you how to use them."
She started sidling away. "Great! I'll just... go..."

Suddenly the alarm was raised. "It's those adventurers! They found the secret stairs!"

-----

Lureene kicked in the door. Like, effortlessly. It was unlocked, so it just slammed into the wall.

Inside, though, was a ... surprisingly normal-looking office.
A desk, a skeletal songbird in a cage, anatomical drawings on the wall behind him.

Behind it stood the shriveled corpse of a humanoid man, wearing moldy robes and a bronze mask of a frowning face. He had a strange black skull amulet chained to his chest.
A bunch of severed hands skittered around the desk and floor.

"Ah - the new test subjects. Tell me, who's ruling Omu these days?"
Lureene: "What? ... Who the hell are you?"
"I'm the overseer of this dungeon, of course."
Lureene: "No way. *You're* Acererak?"
    *A nameplate on his desk reads "Withers", she just didn't notice.*
Eridian: is "Withers" a nickname then?
Withers: "Acererak appointed me to oversee this dungeon. Now, no more questions until you come inside and take a seat."

Lureene entered the room, but did not take a seat, standing behind the offered chair with her mace still drawn.

lureene: give me one good reason why i shouldn't just evaporate you.
withers: i'll give you two.
  1. you couldn't.
  2. then you'll never find a way out of this dungeon.

eridian could tell he genuinely believed they couldn't kill him,
but didn't think he actually *would* help us.

eridian reluctantly entered the room.
E: okay, where's the trap you're gonna spring on us? just cut to the chase, i'm not in the mood for this bullshit, sir.
Withers: Oh, I *am* the trap.
E: Good enough for me. *(casts Moonbeam on him)*

He didn't seem *that* bothered by it. It hurt him, but not as much as it should.

Withers: Shaggy! Go close that door!
*(he drew his sword and JUMPED over the table, attacking Lureene because she was in the way.)*

## Roll Initiative!

- Withers critted on Lureene! She took 18 damage and lost 5 max HP (by rolling nat 1 on her CON save, go figure).
- Lureene fought back! Her first attack hit some kind of magical barrier. The second got through it, but ... oddly, the radiant damage didn't seem to pop off, even though he appeared undead.
- Eridian tried to use her Charm of Conjure Animals, but... the spell fizzled. She used Healing Word on Lureene, which did *not* fizzle.
- Shaggy stabbed one of the skittering hands with an arrow! It ded. (Withers was audibly displeased...)
- Alatu screamed, "CREEEED!" She sent Melvin (who'd been with her this whole time by the way) to go get him, and he scurried off. Then she moved into the room and cast "protection from evil and good" on herself.
- Withers glared at Shaggy, and yelled something in Abyssal (which only Shaggy understood). *"Dwarves! To the office! We're under attack!"*
  Then, suddenly, with a wave of his hand, it went totally black in the office.
  There was a huge, thunderous BOOM (like someone casting Thunderwave). Only Shaggy took damage from it.
- Lureene attacked directly in front of her. One blow landed, but the second whiffed in the darkness. She heard Withers chuckle.
  Lureene: "Show yourself, coward!!"
- Eridian moved the moonbeam, hoping to catch him in it, then cast Shillelagh on her weapon. (She was going to heal Lureene, but there was that pesky "target you can *see*" stipulation.)
- Shaggy felt the clammy hands climbing and scratching her and stuff! Gross.
  She related what Withers said - "He's calling for reinforcements!"
  Luckily, she had Blindsight out to 10 feet.
  She sent her animal companion out to look for this "Creed" character as well, then skewered a hand on an arrow.
- Alatu lit a torch. It did nothing, obviously. So she summoned her familiar (a snake), who had infravision.
- Eridian felt a blade come down on her right side! OUCH. Then she heard a "pop" and everyone could see again.
- Lureene grabbed the two remaining hands off of Shaggy. The first one she threw at the ground so hard it died on impact (but then she stomped on it and it was extra dead). The second she just kinda held onto while it wiggled uselessly.
  Then she brandished her mace at Shaggy. "Okay, who are you?"
- Eridian healed Lureene a bit.
- Shaggy threw up a peace sign and dropped her hand kebab. "Hey, I don't want any trouble! I don't even work here!"
- Alatu recommended getting the fuck outta here before Withers and his pals teleported back in. She walked into the hallway - and there was Withers! Cool.
  Alatu: "Oh, mother *fucker!*"
- Withers cast Force Lightning! Alatu and Eridian took a bunch of damage! Alatu went down.
  Eridian: "He's down the hall-!"
  He teleported again.
  Eridian: "Never mind, he's an asshole!"
- Lureene chucked the hand over her shoulder and took off into the hall in pursuit, stepping over Alatu's unconscious body. She couldn't see any sign of him. She called back, "Eridian, help Alatu!" and dashed to the north door to kick it down. (But was unsuccessful with her first kick.)
- Eridian healed herself and Alatu.
- The remaining hand lunged for Shaggy! Eridian whacked it out of the air.
- Shaggy went up to the door to look out, but the door slammed closed. Okay, fine, she went to ransack the desk looking for his keys or whatever, *anything* that could be of use.
  She stole a knife, a bag of sand, and the book from on top of his desk.
- Alatu, back up, followed Lureene to the north door.
- Lureene attempted to kick in the door again! It's pretty tough, though, apparently.
- Eridian healed herself again and began searching the room.
  - The skeletal songbird seemed pretty calm, considering. She figured she could probably sell something like this for 75 gp, to the right buyer.
  - The walls were plastered in drawings and notes. It seemed Withers was studying natural history and anatomy. A nerd!
  - She recognized the book Shaggy had found as a Book of Golemry. It wasn't all evil like the flesh-golem book, it appeared to be about *clay* golems.

> Paul: "It's almost like he's a wizard or something."  
> Lisa: "A wizard who's good at stabbing. Kind of like Artus!"
> Paul: "Actually, Artus is more of a stabby guy who can do a couple of spells. And those all come from magic items."

> OOC discussion about whether zombies count as a renewable resource.
> (No, because you're taking something biodegradable and making it less biodegradable.)

- Shaggy befriended the skeleton bird. Yay! Then she crossed to the door.
- Alatu called out for Molly, because she had a hammer and could probably break down a door like that. (Creed heard *something* in the distance but wasn't sure what.)
- Lureene got a 10-foot running start and SLAMMED into the door! ... And took 5 damage to her shoulder.
  From behind it, she heard Withers: "You wouldn't talk, so now you have to go through the dungeon like normal people!"
  Alatu: "That's what we were doing anyway!!"

Lureene gave up on trying to bust down this door, for now, so they left initiative.

-----

# Hey let's go see what Creed is up to

Creed was accosted by a weird fanged deer and Melvin the flying monkey. He updated Orvex on what was up. Orvex said he'd just been sketching this golden skull here. "I thought it was following Molly. Where is she, anwyay?"

Creed: "... Molly won't be joining us."

They followed the funky deer through the passage up to rejoin the rest of the party.

---

# Back upstairs

Eridian and Shaggy joined Lureene and Alatu.
Lureene explained Withers had gotten away, the door was too tough and she couldn't get through.
Eridian: Did you try the handle?
Lureene: ...
Lureene: *(goes back and tries the handle)*
Lureene: Yeah no, shit's locked.

Eridian took the door down with stoneshape, disconnecting the wall from the hinges.

Creed arrived with Shaggy's deer, Bambo, and Lureene explained the situation - then realized Eridian was done and struggling to hold the door up. Oop!

Lureene took hold of it and shoved it inward; it slammed onto the ground with a tremendous THUD.

Immediately, Lureene, Eridian, and Alatu were all hit by Withers's lightning bolt spell. WHOOPS, ROLL INITIATIVE EVERYBODY

## Workshop

They had entered a long room lined with tables with a bunch of gears and cogs and shit.
Iron maiden at the far end, which is fed by all sorts of tubes - steam and blood and all kinds of mean nasty ugly things.
5 dwarves, all carrying an assortment of weapons.
1 Withers.

- Lureene, who was fearless and not afraid to take great risks, entered the workshop without hesitation and attacked the nearest dwarf.
- Alatu used her last and final spell slot to cast Goreball on him Withers! ... Withers counterspelled it. WELP.
- Creed entered the workshop and drew the Holy Avenger, attacking the same dwarf as Lureene. He realized these guys were not undead either.
- All the tomb dwarves dropped what they were doing, and four of them pulled out light crossbows and shot at Lureene. Two of them hit.
  The one Lureene and Creed were fighting pulled out two battle-axes. They were both two handers but he was dual-wielding them anyway.
- The iron contraption at the north end *hissed* open, letting out a cloud of steam, and a fresh Tomb Guardian emerged, ready to fight!
- Eridian summoned four of those clawfoot raptor things around Withers. This time it worked!
- Shaggy joined the fray, casting Hail of Thorns and shooting with her longbow. (It hit the raptors but they made the save and only took half damage.) Withers failed the save though! Then she shot him again lol.
- Withers pulled out a sword and started whaling on Lureene. Ouch!
- Lureene cast **Color Spray** at level 2. The only one affected.. was Withers himself. (Which tells us he's got the lowest HP here, *and* less than 38. We got him on the ropes!)
- Eridian's raptors eviscerated one of the dwarves.
- Creed said something under his breath; nobody heard it, but it was a vow of enmity in ancient Dwarvish. He attacked Withers and tossed a Potion of Greater Healing to Lureene, which she caught.
- The Tomb Guardian "fisted Creed right in the back" (Bryan's words not mine).
- The dwarves ran to deal with the raptors, but Creed got an AoO on one and got a free move to flank Withers!
- The Tomb Guardian grabbed on to Withers and began to tremble... before straight-up falling down dead. Oh, shit, he just healed Withers, didn't he...

-----

# Next time

- We reconvene in 2 weeks, in the middle of combat! Against the middle manager of Business Tomb.
- I should make a backup backup character... I have a backup, but they're a ranger just like Shaggy, so...
