---
draft: true
---
*Our heroes find some children*

---

Creed gets the drop on Urkel the snake, and between him and Lureene, they literally vaporize him within like one round.

Tortoiseshell shield:
Stats of a small shield.
When worn, amplifies the wearer's voice to enormous volume.
    No other known affects. Doesn't require attunement.

Lureene realizes the shield's effects when she accidentally says **"WE BETTER GET GOING"** on loudspeaker.
Since that pretty much announced their presence to everything within 150 yards, they do indeed get going.

## Hallway

They headed back down the hall to the east, the way they came.
They reached an intersection: North was the Fane, and south was some kind of apothecary lab full of poisons and stuff.

## Poison Room

The yuan-ti (and zombies) in the poison room noticed them and attacked, but the party dispatched them.

Creed gets a syringe:
+3 attack (thrown or melee), DC 14 con save, 3d6 poison dmg (save halves)
The yuan-ti also has a **Brass Key**, which Creed takes.

In the poison room:
* 10 doses serpent venom
* 2 doses torpor
* 2 doses essence of ether

While everyone else was poking around the poison room, Molly wandered off into the Fane to check it out.

## The Fane

A huge worship chamber, currently unoccupied. The room's most obvious feature are the giant pools of blood.
A cauldron of Suspicious Stew sits front and center.

**Exits**
* North, probably
* South: to the hallway and Poison Room
* East: to the Harem (obscured by a thick curtain)
* West: to the Hall of War, probably

Molly went straight for the curtain and peered inside.
A number of Yuan-ti women were lounging around inside, protected by two Broodguards.
But apparently *running* the joint was none other than Princess Mwaxanare.

Mwaxanare shouts: "NA, WHERE'S THAT FOOD?!"
Na comes scurrying over from a door to the northeast, carrying a tray of food.
Molly stops him.

Meanwhile, the rest of the party noticed Molly was gone and went to catch up with her, just in time to see Na coming out.
They surprised him so much that he dropped a tray, though Lureene caught the other tray.

Na told what's been happening to him and Mwax.
raz nsi makes snakes bite us every day,
and bathes us in blood.
he has his private chambers, he doesn't bathe with the others.

Na insists something is wrong with Mwaxanare - she's acting all strange but she really *doesn't* want to be here.

Creed and Lureene reassure Na that we're here to rescue him, and we'll make Ras Nsi pay.
"You remember our goblin friend Dennis? We can take you out to him and he'll take you to where you'll be safe."
Na agrees, and Lureene starts scouting back the way we came, to see if we can go that way or if we've attracted too much attention.

Alatu walks into the harem *very* dramatically, goes right up to Mwaxanare all "Ohh, Princess, I'm so glad you're all right!" Pretends to grovel at her feet, but while she does so... casts Protection from Evil and Good.
Mwax seems to come to her senses for a second. "Ras Nsi is here. He knows my ancestral connection with Omu... we have to get out of here."
But then she jerks to attention and kicks Alatu back a square.

* Alatu then takes Mwax hostage with a knife to her throat, while Molly orders the other harem ladies to fucking move if they don't want to die.
* One of the broodguards stabs Alatu in the back (and crits). Welp.
* Alatu makes a show of trying to cut Mwax's throat! Mwax is unintimidated by Alatu telling her to cooperatate, but one of the Yuan-ti women runs up and stops the broodguard. "Don't hurt the Queen! We can't risk the Queen!" (The hostage-taking was an overwhelming success.)
* Karnassus uses Suggestion to tell one of the Broodguards to clear out. It works! (But he runs and gets reinforcements.)
* Molly uses Disarming Strike on the one who stabbed Alatu. Revenge! He's not disarmed though.
* The stabguard tackles Alatu, freeing Mwaxanare from her grasp! Karnassus tries to intimidate the ladies (speaking Draconic-Common creole) into going back to their alcoves.
* Alatu and Molly try to get back in control of Mwax, but Mwax is kicking and screaming and throwing a fucking fit. Alatu improvises a gag for Mwax and starts trying to drag her out of the room, with her ... terrible STR score.
* Mwax cannot be reasoned with, so in the end Molly throws her over her shoulder like a sack of potatoes and they book it. Just in time, since it would appear they've attracted  attention!
* A *lot* of attention.

Meanwhile:
* Lureene dashes down the hall and checks with Azi Mas - "Has anyone else come this way?" Azi Mas: "Nobody sssince you..." So, satisfied that the way is most likely clear, she dashes back without explaining to him what's up.
* Creed tells Na to come along. Na says he's not sure he can keep up, so Creed awkwardly picks him up (then rethinks it and lets him reposition himself better), and joins up with Lureene.
* They dash back out the way they came, saying hi to Azi Mas as they go. Azi Mas is just kind of bemused by all this.
* In the mines, the campfire is starting to spread to the firewood! Luckily it hasn't got too bad, and Lureene is able to kick it apart and extinguish it.
* Creed realizes the other door is a shortcut and he has the key, so he unlocks it real quick.
* Lureene and Creed hear something *big* moving in the water to the right... better book it.
* Oh yeah, Creed can't see in the dark. Creed gets out his lantern.
* Lureene dashes back through the shortcut to try and go get the others... and arrives just in time to see reinforcements surrounding the others and Mwax.


Creed drops off Na with Dennis and Rachel. He gives Dennis some Dream Tincture and tells them to drink some if there's an emergency.
Dennis: You mean if the Hydra in there comes this way?
Creed: Yes. Yes, definitely. How do you know it's a Hydra?
Dennis: I've heard one before.
Dennis says he'll leave his knife on the ground if they use it, as a sign. Creed gives him a second knife as well.
if the Hydra comes this way.


---

## Options for replacing characters if you die

* character is an adventurer who breached Omu ages ago and was imprisoned in a carving on the wall.
* character hails from another world (medieval earth, krynn, etc.) trapped in stasis as a trophy.
* ~~character is a clone of the fallen adventurer, who's been captured & is being tortured, escapes hags.~~ no, this is stupid.
* sole survivor of a previous expedition that came here to destroy the soulmonger.
