*Our heroes continue their search for the fabled ruin of Orolunga; they are set upon by undead monsters and wild beasts; and Eridian learns a great secret in confidence*

---

# Events

## *Day 17*

Attacked by Undead Ogres (x2). Azaka stole Lureene's kill.

## *Day 18?*

Azaka wandered off during the night. Creed and Eridian went looking for her, but were ambushed by Axebeaks (x6). Lureene tried to join the fight when she heard noises, but they were 200 yards away and by the time she caught up they were already done.  
Eridian learned that Azaka is a weretiger, but Azaka did not want this information shared.

## *Day 20*

Ambushed from the air by Quetzalcoatlus (x3). They're kind of like very large pterodactyls. Eridian went down in the surprise round. Lureene used Color Spray to blind the enemy *she* was engaged with, and juked over to distract the one that downed Eridian, allowing Creed to Lay Hands On her. (Eridian healed herself the rest of the way.) She also managed to disable that one's wing for a turn so it couldn't take off, then dealt the fatal blow. Of the others, Molly killed one with a crossbow and Azaka killed the other with her sick double scimitar moves.

## *Day 21-22*

Uneventful.

---

# Important Notes

* Lureene now knows Creed can use healing magic, though he's primarily a fighting-type. I think she knows Eridian is a druid? As a city girl, though, she's not really sure what that means.
* The party now knows Lureene can use magic. It wasn't really a *secret*, it just never came up.
* Day 40 is the next full moon.